Document troubleshooting for failng kaniko detection (#13100)
kyma-project/kyma: docs/04-operation-guides/troubleshooting/svls-04-function-build-failing-on-k3d.md

---
title: Functions failing to build on k3d
---

## Symptom

> There are rare cases for some k3d versions and configurations where users experienced functions failing to be built.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are rare cases, for some k3d versions and configurations, where users experience Functions failing to be built.
```

> If you see that your function cannot be built,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you see that your Function cannot be built,
```

```
$ kubectl get functions.serverless.kyma-project.io nyfun
NAME    CONFIGURED   BUILT   RUNNING   RUNTIME    VERSION   AGE
myfun   True         False             nodejs14   1         3h15m
```

> and function build job shows the following error, than your host k3d environment is probably vulnerable to the problem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and the Function build job shows the following error, meaning that your host k3d environment is likely to experience the problem.
```

```
$ kubectl logs myfun-build-zqhk8-7xl6h
kaniko should only be run inside of a container, run with the --force flag if you are sure you want to continue
```

## Cause

> This problem originates in kaniko - the container image build tool used in kyma. Kaniko is designed to be run in container. Kyma complies with the recomendation and executes kaniko in container ( as build jobs ).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This problem originates in kaniko - the container image build tool used in Kyma. kaniko is designed to be run in a container and this is how it is executed in Kyma (as build jobs).
```

> Kaniko has a detection mechanism to verify wheather the build is actually executed in a container and fails in case it is not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kaniko has a detection mechanism to verify whether the build is actually executed in a container and fails in case it is not.
```

> This detection mechanism has some issues and for some circumstances (i.e hosts with cgroups in version 2 or other .. not yet clearly identidfied ) it results with false positive result. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This detection mechanism has issues and in some circumstances (i.e hosts with cgroups in version 2 or other, not yet clearly identified) it shows false positive result. 
```

> Related Issues:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Related issues:
```

 - https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/issues/13051
 - https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/kaniko/issues/1592
 
## Remedy

> Kaniko can be executed with `--force` flag that skips the verification. To do so, please override the kaniko execution arguments by passing `--force` flag additionally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kaniko can be executed with `--force` flag that skips the verification. To do so, please override the kaniko execution arguments by passing `--force` flag.
```

```
kyma provision k3d
kyma deploy --value containers.manager.envs.functionBuildExecutorArgs="--insecure,--skip-tls-verify,--skip-unused-stages,--log-format=text,--cache=true,--force"
```

> When used, the build would suceed, but Kaniko would assume it is run outside container and woould produce this log:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When used, the build would succeed, but kaniko would assume that it is run outside a container and would produce this log:
```

---
title: Functions failing to build on k3d
---

## Symptom

There are rare cases, for some k3d versions and configurations, where users experience Functions failing to be built.

Your Function cannot be built:
```
$ kubectl get functions.serverless.kyma-project.io nyfun
NAME    CONFIGURED   BUILT   RUNNING   RUNTIME    VERSION   AGE
myfun   True         False             nodejs14   1         3h15m
```
and the Function build job shows the following error, meaning that your host k3d environment is likely to experience the problem:
```
$ kubectl logs myfun-build-zqhk8-7xl6h
kaniko should only be run inside of a container, run with the --force flag if you are sure you want to continue
```

## Cause

This problem originates in kaniko - the container image build tool used in Kyma. kaniko is designed to be run in a container and this is how it is executed in Kyma (as build jobs).
kaniko has a detection mechanism to verify whether the build is actually executed in a container and fails in case it is not.

> This detection mechanism has issues and in some circumstances (i.e hosts with cgroups in version 2 or other, not yet clearly identified) it shows false positive result. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This detection mechanism has issues and in some circumstances (i.e. hosts with cgroups in version 2 or other, not yet clearly identified) it shows false positive result. 
```

Related issues:
 - https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/issues/13051
 - https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/kaniko/issues/1592
 
## Remedy

> kaniko can be executed with `--force` flag that skips the verification. To do so, please override the kaniko execution arguments by passing `--force` flag.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
kaniko can be executed with a `--force` flag that skips the verification. To do so, please override the kaniko execution arguments by passing the `--force` flag.
```

> Introduce a file with overrides, i.e `my-overrides.yaml`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Introduce a file with overrides, i.e. `my-overrides.yaml`
```

---
title: Functions failing to build on k3d
---

## Symptom

There are rare cases, for some k3d versions and configurations, where users experience Functions failing to be built.

> If you see that your Function cannot be built,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your Function cannot be built:
```

```
$ kubectl get functions.serverless.kyma-project.io nyfun
NAME    CONFIGURED   BUILT   RUNNING   RUNTIME    VERSION   AGE
myfun   True         False             nodejs14   1         3h15m
```

> and the Function build job shows the following error, meaning that your host k3d environment is likely to experience the problem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and the Function build job shows the following error, meaning that your host k3d environment is likely to experience the problem:
```

kaniko should only be run inside of a container, run with the --force flag if you are sure you want to continue
```

## Cause

This problem originates in kaniko - the container image build tool used in Kyma. kaniko is designed to be run in a container and this is how it is executed in Kyma (as build jobs).
kaniko has a detection mechanism to verify whether the build is actually executed in a container and fails in case it is not.
This detection mechanism has issues and in some circumstances (i.e hosts with cgroups in version 2 or other, not yet clearly identified) it shows false positive result. 

Related issues:
 - https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/issues/13051
 - https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/kaniko/issues/1592
 
## Remedy

kaniko can be executed with `--force` flag that skips the verification. To do so, please override the kaniko execution arguments by passing `--force` flag.

Introduce a file with overrides, i.e `my-overrides.yaml`
```yaml
serverless:
  containers:
    manager:
      envs:
        functionBuildExecutorArgs:
          value: --insecure,--skip-tls-verify,--skip-unused-stages,--log-format=text,--cache=true,--force
```

> Use the file to override default configuration while deploying kyma on your k3d instance:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the file to override the default configuration while deploying Kyma on your k3d instance:
```

```bash
kyma deploy --values-file my-overrides.yaml
```

> When used, the build would succeed, but kaniko would assume that it is run outside a container and would produce this log:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The build succeeds but kaniko assumes that it is run outside a container and shows the following log:
```
